Book 29 LESSON TWO * PART IV

THE MAIN HARVEST

I CORINTHIANS 15:24-54

I Corinthians 15:23, and we're using that text as a jumping off place, because we previously asked, "Who are Christ's at His coming that will be resurrected in the largest part of the resurrection harvest?" Remember from the Old Testament economy we had the firstfruits - the sampling - that's Christ and those who came out of the graves after He came out in Matthew Chapter 27. Then we have the main harvest, which is the Church resurrection and includes the Rapture. Then we have the gleanings and the corners, and if we have time we'll go back to Daniel Chapter 12 and we'll see this is the resurrection of the Old Testament saints shortly after the Kingdom here on earth is established. So I teach the resurrection of the Just (the believers of all the ages) will be in three distinct separate stages.

I Corinthians 15:23

"But every man in his own order: (Or his own company) Christ the firstfruits; afterward (It's now been almost 2000 years.) they that are Christ's at his coming."

That's not a reference to His Second Coming but since Paul is writing about this he's talking about Christ's coming for the Body of Christ, "The Rapture of the Church," two completely different events that are separated by 7 years. Remember, all the Old Testament promises and programs never considered the out-calling of the Church. It was never in there because God had kept it secret. So all the Old Testament prophecies spoke of the coming of Christ to be their King, and they would have to go through the Tribulation and then they could have the King and the Kingdom. You can find that in Psalm Chapter 2, Joel Chapter 2, and Zechariah Chapter 14. They all speak of this kind of a Biblical timeline. However, Israel rejected the King back at the Cross and the Tribulation did not come in, they did not get the Kingdom. So instead, after having crucified their Messiah, and Peter does not succeed in turning Israel into repentance (Acts 2:38).

God then brings forth the Apostle Paul and this is what we have been looking at for the past three lessons, and it's the calling out the Body of Christ primarily from the Gentiles. And since it has nothing to do with the Old Testament program or Tribulation, which is also tied to the Old Testament and primarily for the Jew, then we maintain that the Body of Christ is insulated from God's dealings with Israel either before or after the Cross, and so consequently this is why I teach the Rapture. The Body of Christ has to be off the scene before God can pick up dealing with Israel again. Always remember, if we could just take the Church out, which is in parentheses, then we can place the Tribulation back with the Old Testament economy of the Second Coming of the Messiah, the Tribulation, the King, and the Kingdom. However, when Israel rejected it, God went to Paul and the calling out of the Body of Christ, and it has to be raptured and then He will yet bring in the Tribulation to Israel. Now let's go back to Romans again. Turn to Chapter 11 verse 25 (that I always I maintain will be the triggering mechanism for Christ coming for the Church). Now we know there is no time element, we can never say that in five years He's coming. I certainly like to think He is, but we can't say that. We don't know if He's coming in a hundred years, but we do know that He's coming, and we do know that He's coming the moment that the Body of Christ is complete. When the last person is saved, and the Body is complete then Christ will come for the Church.

Romans 11:25

"For I would not, brethren,..." (Remember Paul is writing to the common ordinary believer out there in the pew. Every believer should be aware of these things, and that's why I teach. I don't have to teach the preachers and the seminarians, but rather I want to teach the common people out here in the everyday walk of life. Because God wants every one of us to drop our ignorance, and pick up on the wisdom of His Word).

"...that ye should be ignorant of this mystery,..."

Now define the word `ignorant.' When someone is ignorant it doesn't mean that they don't have the brain power. Someone who is ignorant isn't someone who is incapacitated to a degree, but rather ignorance is simply a lack of being taught. I consider myself ignorant regarding electricity. I know the ramifications of it, but to get right into the details of three-phase electricity, I'm lost, Why? Because I've never been taught about it. I'm sure I could learn it if I had to, and it's the same way with Scripture, most people are ignorant of the Scriptures not because they don't have the capacity but because no one has taught them. So this is what Paul is constantly advocating; learn, learn, gain knowledge, get wisdom from The Book.

Romans 11:25

"For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits, (And here is the secret) that blindness (A spiritual blindness) in part is happened to Israel,..."

Well, what's Paul talking about? When Israel rejected the Messiah, why did they reject Him? Ignorance! They didn't know Who He was. I've been telling my classes for 25 years, over and over, Israel should have known Who Jesus was. Israel could have known Who Jesus was because it was in the Old Testament. Why didn't they? They didn't bother to study. The priests knew it, and they knew the stuff on the surface, but they didn't get right down into the nitty-gritty of the Old Testament prophecies. When the wise men came to Herod and asked about the King of Israel, Herod calls up the big-wigs of Judaism, and they had to go search the Scriptures to see where He was to be born. Did they find it? Sure they did. They said "He was to be born in Bethlehem," so they could have known, but they didn't. And do you know America is no better right now today? Every last person in these 50 states should know that we are in the end times, that we are approaching the very coming of Christ, and the Tribulation, the appearance of the Anti-christ and world government, but do they? No. Most of them don't even know what you're talking about. Why? Because they chose to remain ignorant. They don't have to be, but they are. Paul is admonishing the believers at Rome, "Don't be ignorant of this fact that God has literally dropped a spiritual blindness on the Nation of Israel." Remember the individual Jew can still have his eyes opened and believe, but nationally they are blinded, in fact, here in this chapter look at verse 7.

Romans 11:7

"What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for: (What were they seeking? The King and the earthly Kingdom! How did they miss it? They were ignorant. How ignorant? Well, they were looking for a King Who would come in with pomp and power and circumstance, at least symbolically riding on a great white Arabian steed. Instead their King came riding in on a lowly donkey. And they missed it. Well, they were ignorant of Who He really was, and so Paul says, `that Israel did not obtain that which they were looking for,') but the election (Those few Jews who did believe) hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded." And that's the Nation of Israel to this very day. They are still blind to Who Jesus really was. Now coming back to verse 25, Paul says, "That we Gentiles are to understand that this spiritual blindness has fallen on the Nation of Israel, and it will remain on their spiritual eyes"

Romans 11:25b

"...until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in."

Well, what's the fulness of the Gentiles? The Body of Christ, the Church. So when the Body of Christ is full then God will take us out of the way and He will start dealing again with the Nation of Israel. Now when I say that the Tribulation is primarily Jewish, here's where I have to go back with you to Jeremiah Chapter 30, and of course this is just one verse. There are many, many others. However this one is so plain that I think anybody can comprehend it.
