Book 11 LESSON THREE * PART III

REVELATION 6, CONTINUED

Let's go back to the horsemen of the Apocalypse in Revelation Chapter 6 for a quick review. First we have the appearance of the Anti-christ. He signs the seven-year treaty with Israel which gives them relative peace and safety. Then I feel you will have that great invasion of the red horde from the north, which in turn will precipitate a great demise in the food supply. That will trigger the famine (or the black horse in verses 5 and 6), as well as the pestilences. And remember that we showed you in Matthew 24 that Jesus foretold that these things were just the beginning of sorrow or travail. These are the beginning days of the Tribulation. It's going to be the most awful seven-year period in human history. We will be seeing that, as Jesus spoke of it in Matthew 24. But now, turn to Revelation Chapter 6. Remember, these horsemen were also seals, and we have four of the seals off (there were seven seals on the scroll to begin with). Now He opens the fifth seal. And John, in his visionary experience, of course:

Revelation 6:9

"And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held:"

I have to feel he was making reference to the Tribulation martyrs. Later we're going to show that, yes indeed, there will be multitudes of non-Jews who will have a salvation experience during this turmoil. But they will not live very long to tell about it, because it's going to be a period of time where they are going to be martyred immediately. These are the ones I feel that John sees in a prophetic light, and these who have been martyred for their faith will cry:

Revelation 6:10

"And they cried with a loud voice, saying, `How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?'" And, of course, we know that He's going to.

Revelation 6:11

"And white robes were given unto every one of them (that is, these that had been martyred for their faith); and it was said unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellowservants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled."

That's all part of the fifth seal. Now we come to the sixth seal. Remember there's only seven that are holding this scroll together, and Christ is the One that is opening it in order to be able to read that mortgage and pay it off. Okay, we're coming back to that scroll that was in Revelation Chapter 5:

Revelation 6:12a

"And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and , lo, there was a great earthquake;..."

In Matthew 24, that was one of the things that Jesus had mentioned, that there would be famine and pestilence and earthquakes in divers places. We're already seeing a tremendous increase in earthquake activity; thousands of percent in the last twenty or thirty years. There's so many earthquakes taking place every day that the media doesn't even bother to report them. I read recently in one of the daily papers there where three or four earthquakes; not huge, but 4.6 or 5 on the Richter scale. There was one in China, one in Southern Russia and one in Iran. They're taking place every day. This is contrary to history; it hasn't always been that way. In verse 12 we're approaching the mid-point of this seven years. We're about at the end of 3 1/2 years as we get to the sixth seal.

Revelation 6:12b

"...and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood;"

All you have to do is know the circumstances. When there's tremendous earthquakes, there's more than likely volcanic eruptions as well. As we know from the past, volcanoes can spew out so much dust that the sun can almost be blocked out. I think that's what we have here. It isn't that God all of a sudden is going to blacken the sun, per se. But as a result of all these activities on the planet, the sun will almost become like we've seen it at times, like a little red glow. And the moon became as blood, again because of all the pollution that has been blown into the atmosphere. Then verse 13. This is God dealing primarily with the Nation of Israel. Jeremiah said it was the time of Jacob's trouble. I've pointed out over the years, for those of you who have been following from Genesis on, that whenever God was dealing with Israel in the land, the supernatural was commonplace. Beginning when Moses went into Egypt, the plagues were supernatural events that were under God's control. The opening of the Red Sea was supernatural. The life and escapades of Samson were supernatural. And the appearance of the Angelic hosts at Christ's birth was supernatural. The opening of the prison, when Peter was in captivity, by the use of a earthquake - what was it? Supernatural. So this is what I'm talking about. When God is dealing with that Nation of Israel, as He will be in these seven years, we're dealing with the supernatural every day - things that are beyond the ordinary. In verse 13, we even have cosmic disturbances.

Revelation 6:13,14

"And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places."

In other words, tremendous earthquake activity. And this is only in the first half. The second half is going to be far worse. Even rulers and men in high places are getting shook up:

Revelation 6:15,16

"And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains (and they actually plead for death): And said to the mountains and rocks, `Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:'"

Do you see for the last 1900 plus years, mankind has not seen the wrath of God. Now we know there has been a lot of calamity. We know that there has already been a lot of earthquake activity, and wars and famine and so forth. But that has not been the wrath of God. I've always maintained that the things that come upon the human race, that plague us, are not acts of God's wrath. They are God permitting Satan to bring suffering and turmoil to God's creation. God is not in the business tonight of pouring out His wrath. He's a God of Grace, tonight. Paul says in Romans Chapter 5, that where sin abounded, what's always greater? His grace abounds even more. But, grace has ended here with the out-calling of the Body of Christ just before the Tribulation begins. We are seeing the wrath of the Lamb being poured out. Verse 17, and it's repeated twice in two verses:

Revelation 6:17

"For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand?"

Do you remember Psalms Chapter 2? We've used it so often coming up through the Old Testament. After mankind, Jew and Gentile, have rejected the King, they're going to go into a period of perplexity and derision - and that's where the world is tonight. They don't know where to turn. And then what does the next verse say in Psalms Chapter 2?

Psalms 2:5

"Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure."

It's no longer the Age of Grace. All these events take us up to the mid-point of this seven years. We've had the appearance of the Anti-christ. We've had the permission (if I may use that word) for Israel to go back into Temple worship. She's going to go back under the Law you might say. She's getting closer to that all the time. Now back again to Revelation 6. As we come to the end of the Chapter, let me repeat verse 17:

Revelation 6:17

"For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand?"

The Bible does not actually refer to the Tribulation as being the wrath of God until the last 3 1/2 years. The first 3 1/2 are going to be bad enough, but the last 3 1/2 years will be beyond human comprehension. Let's go to Matthew 24 once again. I've said before, you can't study Revelation without studying Matthew 24. Here Jesus is speaking of this very thing. Starting at verse 8, what does Jesus call all of these things that are taking place (the tremendous loss of life in that 1/4 of world has died - and all the pestilences and famine)?
